# Contents

- [ERC777](#ERC777)
- [Links](#Links)
- [What If I Already Use ERC20?](#What If I Already Use ERC20?)
- [Constructing an ERC777 Token Contract](#Constructing an ERC777 Token Contract)
- [Sending Tokens to Contracts](#Sending Tokens to Contracts)

# ERC777
Like ERC20, ERC777 is a standard for fungible tokens, and is focused around allowing more complex interactions when trading tokens. More generally, it brings tokens and Ether closer together by providing the equivalent of a msg.value field, but for tokens.

The standard also brings multiple quality-of-life improvements, such as getting rid of the confusion around decimals, minting and burning with proper events, among others, but its killer feature is receive hooks. A hook is simply a function in a contract that is called when tokens are sent to it, meaning accounts and contracts can react to receiving tokens.

This enables a lot of interesting use cases, including atomic purchases using tokens (no need to do approve and transferFrom in two separate transactions), rejecting reception of tokens (by reverting on the hook call), redirecting the received tokens to other addresses (similarly to how PaymentSplitter does it), among many others.

Furthermore, since contracts are required to implement these hooks in order to receive tokens, no tokens can get stuck in a contract that is unaware of the ERC777 protocol, as has happened countless times when using ERC20s.

# Links
Theory --> https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/4.x/erc777
Standard --> https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-777#backward-compatibility

# What If I Already Use ERC20?
The standard has you covered! The ERC777 standard is backwards compatible with ERC20, meaning you can interact with these tokens as if they were ERC20, using the standard functions, while still getting all of the niceties, including send hooks. See the EIP’s Backwards Compatibility section to learn more.

# Constructing an ERC777 Token Contract
We will replicate the GLD example of the ERC20 guide, this time using ERC777. As always, check out the API reference to learn more about the details of each function.

```solidity
// contracts/GLDToken.sol
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

import "@openzeppelin/contracts/token/ERC777/ERC777.sol";

contract GLDToken is ERC777 {
    constructor(uint256 initialSupply, address[] memory defaultOperators)
        ERC777("Gold", "GLD", defaultOperators)
    {
        _mint(msg.sender, initialSupply, "", "");
    }
}
```

# Sending Tokens to Contracts
A key difference when using send is that token transfers to other contracts may revert with the following message:
> ERC777: token recipient contract has no implementer for ERC777TokensRecipient


